no no I know I know it's just a sad
topic was it we're talking about sadness
we're talking about the topic
[Laughter]
Banas yen you've probably already
guessed what this video is about from
the title the background of this video
is that lately okay step one was we
watched this garbage video from a
natural vegan in which she repeatedly
tells vegan gains to get professional
help
not just speaking games but anybody who
feels that they know anybody who hates
kids anybody doesn't want kids in the
same way being gains as some kids
anybody who already has kids and regrets
having kids who kind of like abroad
right it's a get get professional help
and I thought that was a really
sanctimonious and insincere thing and it
really made me stop and reflect in my
life like dude
most of the time there is no
professional help for these questions
we're talking about for these problems
really there is no professional help and
we've seen a number of different
youtubers talk about how suicidal and
depressed they are despite having lives
that are basically completely devoted to
their own self-indulgence permanent
vacation or what-have-you for me I mean
I don't I don't care about kal-el kal-el
is vegan and it was stumbled on her
channel the other day ouu asked me Oh is
she vegan and I said yes and that is the
only interesting thing about her channel
I have nothing else interesting to say
about the kal-el phenomenon but yes she
is vegan and she had a she had a video
up with a black thumbnail you know all
black on screen talking about how
depressed and suicidal she is you know
we hear from people across the spectrum
how they're teetering on the edge of you
know suicide self-destruction depression
often in the midst of lives of relative
opulence self-indulgence where they're
just living for their own entertainment
and what-have-you if you want to sit and
listen to all my white people problems
first world problems listen to this 45
minutes yeah yeah but I would even say
this was kind of touching we watched a
documentary last night that was closer
to an art
film it was a documentary presented soap
Stockman film was a real American art
film and it included looking at people
who were living in these gated
communities in the United States where
they're objectively rich they're living
in objectively very expensive conditions
expensive cars expects expensive homes
expensive golf courses and they're
miserable now look I just wanna say this
so to make a comparison to earning money
I've earned remarkably little money in
my life lives a wonderful life full and
rich hang what have you but if someone
said to me well aisel you're a smart guy
why haven't you earned more money which
once a lot of people say to me once the
wild people said to me they said you
know why didn't you play the stock
market or something one of the realities
is I didn't earn a lot of money in my
life because I was not trying to earn
money that was not my objective I didn't
go to Cambodia to earn money I went to
Cambodia to live in poverty you do more
than just that but you know I didn't go
to Laos to earn money I didn't go to
First Nations University to earn money
when I went to study Korean a joke but
most of the major decisions I made my
life were not about earning money what I
was doing with my time then is you've
never made so it's not surprising that
when you look at my life as a whole I
haven't earned that much money because
that wasn't was trying to do what's
extra strange about some of these
examples we see on YouTube which are
very real very raw first-person
testimony it's really different from
reading an article in a newspaper you
see someone sit down on camera and tell
you that their suicide I'll tell you
that they're depressed it carries a lot
of weight it's very real and this is one
of the great things about YouTube even
if I'm not interested in these
particular examples you know I'm not
really that interested in Jacqueline
Glan I'm really not that interesting how
these people or not not that interested
me but what sinners to me is they are
trying to be happy so I can parallel to
the money thing like if your flat broke
and all your time and energy has been
devoted to trying to get money like you
know you've just been tried that's what
that's your over and then you're broke
okay that's interesting that's a problem
that someone's look that's completely
different from my situation if you're
miserable and suicidal and all you've
been trying to do is be happy
you've just been living for that you
know that glow I don't know how to put
it that I think that carries a lot more
weight that's a lot more serious and we
saw a monologue from a vegan last night
we'll leave it anonymous we saw a model
from a vegan woman last night she's
about 40 now and she was reflecting on
the advice she would
to her younger self and thus advice
she's give me the younger people day and
it was so weird to me that all of her
advice was just about have fun enjoy
life be happy like that's really what
she's got to say to young people and
what she wishes she done when she looks
back at her life right so I get my
girlfriend could jump in anytime but I'm
not forcing her to comment underneath
this like my perspective on these issues
is profoundly profoundly different and I
am self-critical what we're getting into
here is what Arthur Schopenhauer called
practical philosophy I think it's really
a shame that his concept of practical
philosophy didn't take off when he used
the term practical practical philosophy
he said look this is not theoretical
philosophy this is not metaphysics this
is just talking about how we live our
lives how we think about our lives how
we feel about our lives how how we live
as a separate category and that needs to
exist alongside the more metaphysical
abstract theoretical and indeed
political questions in philosophy right
now I really do have a practical
philosophy that I live by and it's not
something pretentious I got out of a
book it's not something I preached to
others on the contrary thing in this
video I wanna make it clear this won't
work for everyone and in some ways it
doesn't even work for me but it really
is the answer to the question why am I
not depressed why am I not suicidal you
know now you know why am I not miserable
like Cowell or something but also when
you look back at different points of my
life that were really dark really
horrible you know intersections in my
life whatever Marseille moments of
change or devastation I think why was I
not suicidal why was I not depressed
then right so like implicitly in many
many of my videos you'll hear me talk
about what I'm doing in my life and why
I'm doing it in terms of two categories
I talked about research and humanitarian
work again and again and again that's
implicit and how I'm presenting what I'm
doing in life it's like in they may not
be in that order I may say humanitarian
work first ever so say something like
well I moved to Saskatchewan at that
time with a combination of research and
humanitarian humanitarian interests you
know I started studying the Cree
language with a combination of research
and humanitarian interests I was living
in Cambodia in pursuit of a combination
of research and human interests you know
I was in Laos learning the language and
studying Pali ancient manuscripts stone
inscriptions doing humanitarian work
blah blah blah the siddur stuff
combination of research in human
interest I say that all the time and to
simplify that really is my practical
philosophy that is how I live that's why
my life is so different from kal-el's
life right now I wanna point this out
especially for white Americans late
Americans tend to kind of put things in
in separate compartments in a different
way from white British people or white
Australian observation like for white
Americans I think a lot of the time like
religion is a separate category and
politics is a separate category and
obviously humanitarian work and that
kind of thing it very often does fall
into you know so this is my real life
over here then this is politics and
religion or they have some some separate
areas that are that are different from
your real life when I talk about these
two categories you know humanitarian
work and and research interests it's a
hundred percent political it's totally
political you know the research I'm
doing is my political life and the
combination of research and imager
interests that is my real life you know
I mean it's not like separate from that
there's the real me and who I really am
or how I really feel or what's going on
that that that is it's not in a separate
category you know so I mean some people
know what I'm talking about here and
some people want I once heard a
criticism of white culture by a black
american pimp he was one of these guys
who'd been a pimp and then retired and
wrote on a biography that was a hit book
about what it's like being a pimp and
the interviewer asked him he said why do
you think that the behavior of black
pimps african-american paps is so
different from white american pimps and
that was his reply he said white
americans always want to have a separate
category where they say this is the real
me this is who I really am this is my
real life and it's separate from my job
except for my passion aside and he said
I don't do that we don't like people
like him don't do that he said you know
if he and bright like the identity of
being a pimp is who he really is that's
this whole thing you know
now am i obviously in some ways a bit of
a dark and morally dubious example but I
still think that that's a really
interesting point and I did feel that
when I was talking to other white people
in Laos Cambodia I remember like I'd
have conversations of people and they
kind of asked like so who are you from
what are your interests and stuff sorry
who are you where are you from what are
your interests you know those are those
kinds of those kinds of questions and
you know I'd have to say back in like
the least pretentious way possible like
look I'm at this point I'm from here
like I've been living in Laos for two
years I don't have any other home to go
to I don't have like a circle of friends
waiting to meet me back in Canada I
don't have a good ongoing life again
this is where I'm from this is what I'm
all about these are all my interests all
my energy and passion is going into this
research I'm doing in Laos this
humanitarian work I want to do and that
both categories are totally political
you know I mean like the humanitarian
work is linked to political aspirations
the research even if it's historical
research is all politically loaded it's
part of my political life like yeah this
is one of the so of course even living
in real poverty in Laos even living in
conditions that are way harder than what
kal-el is living him you know I mean no
shade but you know but lives I was
sometimes living in really really rough
conditions with the mosquitoes and the
malaria and the leeches and all that all
that stuff you know uh but even when I
lived in the big city my my conditions
were pretty rough in Laos hey Mike I
could talk about but I was I was not
depressed I was not suicidal I was happy
as hell I was doing stuff that I found
really meaningful I guess the only other
thing it's a really really short thing I
don't think of life in terms of
suffering versus not suffering I think
of life in terms of the distinction
between meaningful suffering and
meaningless suffering I mean that is
also difference for me and all these
people they said watched a whole bunch
of different videos lately this
documentary it's like I don't see my
life in terms of avoiding misery I see
it in terms of want to embrace and
engage with the misery that I think is
meaningful and rewarding and leads to
something useful you know what I mean as
opposed to suffering away
that I think is pointless dead-ended
counterproductive meaningless right you
know I mean and for me a lot of the
things people do for fun I perceive as
meaningless suffering going on a ski
trip or something and people put a lot
of time a lot of money a lot of energy
into going on a ski trip no me the
planning and the trip and everything
else you know but I just say a lot of
things people do with their time that
they may consider it's fun I may
consider to be to be meaningless misery
you know so look uh now I said before I
present is that I am so critical I don't
think this is a solution for everyone I
don't think this is a practical
philosophy that work for everyone and
I'm even critical the extent to which it
does not work for me or it has bad
results for me and as bad outcomes for
me right
I've been through some really dark
periods in my life when I was in
Cambodia and I quit my job I wasn't
fired I quit for ethical reasons because
my employer was doing things I
considered immoral and unethical within
the humanitarian nonprofit sector so I
quit on point of principle and it was
like I put so much effort into learning
cambodian as a language and you know i
was flat broke it was in this apartment
where i now couldn't afford the rent
because in cambodia you got to stay in
an apartment with the security guards
otherwise you get robbed because you're
a white person looking at cambodia just
saying you can't choose to live in a
really cheap apartment in cambodia
because there get robbed every week and
even though i didn't know anything
valuable they'll take your computer now
you've lost all the work and all the
research you did so you know you've got
it you got to make some tough decisions
like that and it's like sitting there
looking at all this work I'd done on
Cambodia historical political linguistic
humanitarian and like okay am I gonna
throw this in the garbage and take on a
new direction and we looked at all kinds
of options the time was like I'm not
gonna move to Korea am I going to move
back to Europe am I gonna move to Canada
like we could have moved to Europe at
that point me and my ex-wife you know we
you know there was like all these
different options or you know am I gonna
double down on Cambodia that could've
been anything you say no dammit I'm
committed to Cambodia you're gonna move
to Siem Reap and get a low-paying job in
the tourism industry or something you
know what I mean like I'm gonna stick
with Cambodia I'm gonna stick with this
even though that's it's a bad option in
some ways I'm gonna double down this
commit you know there were times like
that that's a really good example we're
living by this philosophy leaves me do a
point that nevertheless is really
is really depressing what have you I've
got to say though you know at that
juncture that's a good good example I
wasn't depressed I wasn't suicidal
because all of those things are still
meaningful to me in principle right
like the humanitarian work I do isn't
pointless even when it's ended badly you
know what I mean like even when it's
come to a conclusion which is me
quitting the job me quitting
humanitarian work over a point of moral
principle you know what I mean I'm not
gonna feel bad about that because that's
something that's still meaningful to me
now it's kind of the meaningfulness of
it continues on past my ability to
actually practice that or do that in
that context in Cambodia and you already
know this but in some ways exactly the
same issues that animated me and
motivated me in Laos and Cambodia
motivated me when I got back to Canada
when I was in Saskatchewan and enrolled
it's totally different situation but
then I'm dealing with the curry in the
ajeeb and those humanitarian issues and
those political issues and so on so it
really in that sense were means
something very positive for me even when
my life is in a situation of total total
disaster total ruination you know I mean
when it's when it's objectively a very
depressing situation ultimately for me
this philosophy of life isn't about
making myself happy
it isn't about my own education or my
own you know area edition or something
it is ultimately about outcomes it's
about making the world a better place
it's about having those those impacts so
for that reason it's necessarily a
source of suffering when I can't have
those those Ockham's when I can't make a
pause the difference which is what
motivates me to live this way in the
first place it is weird for me to watch
so that one video where there's the
vegan giving advice to younger vegans
saying just enjoy your life just have
fun she also said like don't fall in
love like don't fall in love with one
person like you know as if I guess the
point is just date a bunch of random
people you don't care much for or
something is better it is really strange
for me to see other people some vegans
I'm not vegan whatever who are endorsing
a life of kind of self-indulgence the
aimless pursuit of happiness when you
know at the same time sometimes the same
people
talk about how miserable it makes them
how it brings them to the edge of
suicide and depression again and again
when they're not pursuing any other goal
you know they're just trying to be happy
and they fail it's not deep but it's
real so I want to keep this conversation
going I really do
and we got that we got the camera
running but look you know one theme
touched on in the video we just recorded
is this idea that there is no
professional help professional for some
things not for others a lot of the time
people will just tell you get
professional for you and I both a major
source of stress and unhappiness in our
lives is our career path how to take our
education and get a career out of it
this kind of thing yeah and of course
it's a reason to be unhappy it's a
reason to be depressed and it's a reason
to just be miserable whatever and it's a
real problem most people deal with
definitely more than 50 percent of
people deal with and at the modern
Western world now my experience even
going to people where their job
description was career counselor or a
job counselor like where they have a
door and the sign on it says career
counselor my experience that really was
you know what there is no professional
help you'd go to the people or supposed
to give you professional help and there
really is no professional and I mean
your experience was you're just out a
little bit when you would say to people
openly like you're really unhappy
because your job and career situation
and they would say to you well why don't
you get on xanax sir why don't you get
on antidepressants like they would treat
it as a psychological problem I guess
could say they would internalize the
problem instead of ever wanting to deal
with like the material world like the
outside world reality of it
planning for the future yeah I don't
think anybody felt comfortable saying
that you know of course my parents would
say you should pursue this career you
know you'll make a lot of money if you
do this or this and but you know my
friends we're not gonna say you should
you should you know get out of your
relationship you should you know do
something else with your career
right yeah yeah but I mean it's kind of
the most obvious thing and it's weird
that it's it's received in the
background is you're unhappy because the
reality of what your life is there for
change the reality of your life you know
what I mean
like for most of human history that was
the only option aside from getting drunk
or using opium we've had opium for all
of human civilization it's not a new
drug we've had it for thousands of
thousands of years you know opium and
alcohol have been around doesn't seem
that bad you know like some people that
I talk to they like for life could be a
lot harder for you I think but that's
wait no no but that's why I put the
emphasis on meaningful versus
meaningless right like it's not about is
it objectively bad it's about is it
meaningful or meaningless all right like
you can earn a good living as a tax
accountant doing accountancy for for
taxes but if you find it meaningless you
know what I mean
and some of your work has been pretty
close to doing taxes I mean it's been
paperwork you know what I mean and you
know the work I did like trying to solve
the AIDS crisis in Cambodia
sorry no joke that was some of the
humanitarian work I did yeah it also it
maybe involve paperwork it may involve
numbers like it involved a lot of math a
lot of it was detailed mathematic it's
meaningful to me because it's connected
to some humanitarian some political and
research-based obviously I'm learning a
lot of new stuff about aids in Cambodia
yeah that's only one example of a
project I was involved a whole bunch
different what was another one mentioned
my CV you know the project about labor
conditions in factories in Cambodia now
you know like like objectively me
sitting at a desk doing some of the math
might look the same as somebody working
on taxes you know we're doing accounts
do you know what I mean but there's a
meaningful versus meaningless
distinction there and I think I mean I
think my my salary you know I don't
remember maybe was $800 a month I was a
really really low salary and of course
you have to pay for your airplane ticket
you know around the world to fly to
Cambodia and do the work and you have to
you have to live in an apartment
building with a security guard gets down
to help the Dolphins dangerous and
someone there all these other costs
built into it you know yeah yeah but I'm
not upset right now no no I know I know
it's just a sad topic was it we're
talking about sadness you you you float
around the apartment blissed-out
sometimes yeah and I'm trying to work
out and you're just sitting there on a
cloud smiling at me you stare it at me
with big with stars in your eyes no I
know I know you literally float around
in a haze of yeah I know I know I know
you're right now your blisters but we
also talked about the murmurs to the
future I sometimes say to you like look
I know you're really happy now but I
have you know my job takes up very
little of my time here you know we both
have a lot of free time it's very real
it's maybe when we get back to Canada I
think it's gonna be much more stressful
it's gonna be harder for you to be happy
so I sometimes warn her that way - like
don't well you know don't take for
granted that right now we we have this
relation kind of special service which
is a great way to start a relationship
it's great to start later with six
months where we spend a ton of a ton of
quality time together but I don't care
about this but your point is a lot of
friends a lot of people in your life
would just say to you well objectively
it's not that bad like objectively you
don't have anything to be unhappy about
right but like you know you should but
what we're talking about you should get
professional well what we're talking
about here is so subjective it can't be
about objective reality it has to be
about you know subjectively is your life
meaningful or meaningless
are you enjoying doing what you're doing
in life those are intensely ineluctably
subjective things yeah I remember when I
first started college the university
that I went to was doing this project
and having every incoming freshman
complete this this project what makes
life worth living
yeah I just remember like that being a
really depressing topic for me because
yeah at the time I
didn't have a good answer and it was
something really that you know to think
about some people I'd like you know
goofy answers like yeah complete
collection of Nintendo 64 hey mr. sighn
yeah but ultimately you know it's
something that you have to decide for
yourself in and I think what you've
talked about in your prior video that
does make life worth living like for me
yeah I don't know I don't know what
percentage of people that's gonna work
for ya you know as a spiritual
philosophy I don't know if other people
would drive them to suicide you know
what I mean
you know seriously seriously keeping it
keeping all the real but you know I
don't wanna I don't want to hate on the
psych ward you know I mean I'm not here
to say psychiatrists and therapists
can't help anybody with any problems in
our private conversations I use this
example a lot of people who have a
phobia a simple phobia like fear of
insects fear of spiders they go in and
they have a psychiatrist or therapist or
some some kind of professional gives
them professional help with their fear
of spiders and they actually get over it
they actually get cured look at the
beginning of the process there were
terrified of spiders and it really
impacted their daily life in many ways I
read an example of a woman who wouldn't
get into her own car without first
spraying it with insecticide because the
fear that there were spiders in the dark
nooks and crannies of her car that she
couldn't see without even seeing a
spider was just ruling her mind all day
she was just constantly thinking about
spiders and she she got help she got
professional help and it just
disappeared from her life she didn't
care about spiders anymore you know she
wasn't sprained sections that everyone
that's kind of thing spiders king of it
so there are I wish we had two different
words in English language with us there
are some problems you can get
professional help for but it's kind of
mind-blowing how often people say get
professional help for problems where
there is no professional help and where
professionals can't do anything for you
aside from sit down and give you the
opportunity to monologue which of course
we have here on on YouTube we can just
monologue on you
and I think for a lot of people it can
even have a very negative effect where
having someone in a lab coat having an
authority figure doesn't matter what
kind of clothing they're wearing having
someone who's a scientific authority
figure sit down and reify your problems
you know array if I your point of view
that your perspective matters your point
of view matters your feelings matter
your feelings are real yeah I worked for
a forensic psychologist and that I can
definitely see that being a valid use of
psychology he would interview criminals
to see if they are criminally
responsible for whatever crimes they've
been convicted of if they are mentally
capable of understanding you know so for
these for these different types of
situations I think psychology does
really work and you know there are some
conditions that I think so I called
people really do need to see
psychologists for if you have like you
said phobias right
I'm obsessive-compulsive disorder and
like all these like really serious
mental disorders schizophrenia bipolar
disorder but on the other hand my
complaint about professional help goes
way beyond psychology and psychotherapy
and therapy because I'm also saying like
career counselors there's nothing to do
with psychology you know what I mean is
mind-blowing to me that I go to the
career office at the University and
there is no help there's nothing they
can do to help me aside from encouraging
me to do more Google searches like
that's mind-blowing to me where it's
it's something so fundamental that 90%
of university students need help with I
mean 10% of university students already
have a giant la job lined up for their
parents company there they have a job
lined up because they're an x-ray
technician and that's what they're gonna
do they don't need any help with that
but like 90% of university students need
professional help with career counseling
and there is not there is no
professional so just mean beyond this
there are all kinds of problems in life
and you know maybe you know maybe we
need to redefine some of these
disciplines I mean you know relationship
problems should you break up with your
boyfriend or something so a professional
someone wearing the lab coat so to speak
is never gonna tell you your boyfriend's
a piece of and maybe that's what
you need to hear you don't I mean my
father what
to a whole bunch of therapists none of
them ever told him this is your fault
you are a piece of and that's
probably what he really is here you know
I mean this is nothing you know what the
main message people seem to get from
professional help is that their feelings
matter and their feelings are real and
my father was inclined to wallow in that
kind of self-pity anyway so I think that
only made it worse he would never have a
therapist I'll know your feelings don't
matter the feelings of your nine kids
really matter you know what your kids
are right about you when your kids
reproach you and say this to you
they've got a point dude their therapist
will never say that of course the
therapist will so never hear the
perspective of those nine kids they're
only gonna hear the really warped
version of what the problem is you know
for my father right it's very very very
difficult for a psychologist to have any
kind of objective sense of that you know
business is based on customers coming
back to them yes more help from them so
yeah if you call somebody a piece of
they're not gonna come well I
really I mean again across the board
whether it's career counseling or
anything what is the kind of help you
know that can be offered so again this
was this was partly inspired by a
natural vegan saying it's such a haughty
way like get professional help yeah you
know if somebody says that they regret
having kids
she said get professional help what is
the help how was the professional gonna
help you I really want to ask that how
was it gonna help I don't know they say
you're a piece of that's never good
look all the professional is going to be
able to do is sit there and reify your
feelings be like yeah your feelings are
a real thing your feelings really matter
and I don't know maybe your feelings
don't matter you know it may be actually
the perspective you need is you know
what
you know like in Casablanca in this
world you know the feelings of two
people of us who really don't matter
they're these other things that matter
there's war and you know the fate of
your children and taking care of your
kids and all kind there are all kinds of
other issues here that really maybe
matter more than your feelings you know
maybe that's the bitter pill you got to
swallow there but what help can you
offer the person like if you out so the
specific
example but the natural begin applied
that's very broadly if you're someone
who's had kids and you for credit having
kids the professional help you're gonna
get is not gonna advise you you know
what you can put your kids up for
adoption change your name and move to
another country they're never gonna say
that but I maybe I mean we're talking
about a very small minority of people
here we're talking about a few dozen
people in the whole United Sates
maybe that is the answer you know what I
mean there are some people who are
terrible parents and probably should
hand their kids over be Ward's of the
state we saw one of them on YouTube also
not so long ago
and I think two of her kids became
Ward's to the state remember already you
know so there's a real like she had a
whole bunch of kids and some of them are
gonna be taken away by the state and not
others and so on you know for sure there
are people who probably should give up
legal custody of their kids and go on
and start a new life because this is not
for them we there are all kinds of
reasons for that
you know obviously but psychological
reasons inclusive you know what I mean
what in you know professional help
it's kind of ridiculous but even a
career counselor who's not able to tell
you that you should quit your job I mean
it's ridiculous but I just I guess it's
the wart when you put the word
professional before the word help people
just assume that there really is some
help that they can offer I hit a really
tough point in my life where I was
looking around at the Buddhist monks I
knew because I knew all these Buddhist
monks from years as a scholar of
Buddhism I said well why can't any of
you guys help me I use need professional
I just need advice about where to go
from here in terms of put a scholarship
in my career and what have you you know
what I mean and they couldn't offer any
help worth a damn I thought that was
really really damning for who they are
you know for their profession because if
you're a Buddhist monk you have to deal
with questions about suicide and
breaking up with your girlfriend you
have to get ya abortions they got a lot
a lot of people go and ask a Buddhist
monk before they have an abortion that's
a really common one just letting you
know you know oh and euthanasia Buddhist
monks complain to me of that they would
get people coming to all the time saying
they want advice about their elderly
relatives being euthanized so me as a
Buddhist monk you'll deal with a lot of
really tough Q&A sessions and it's like
Here I am I've been a scholar of
Buddhism for than ten years and I just
need someone to advise me on you know
Buddhist scholarship Margo it's really
not it's really not the tough and no
them none of them could do it but a lot
of the time you know there is no
professional help I think what you're
reaching out for you the hypothetical
person think what people are reaching
out for all the time is someone in the
role of an older brother or an older
sister a concerned cousin and you may
not have that or your actual their
brothers and older sisters may all be
pieces of that may all be terrible
people I got eight older brothers and
sisters none of them ever lifted a
finger to help me not even on the level
of advice any of those things I wish I
could but they're bad people you know
it's it's as simple as that a lot of
people my parents were bad people too I
couldn't tell you my parents went and
stuff I tried you know I tried it and
then I ended up you know cutting off
communication with them and trying
something else you know but yeah sure
before that sure I'd years and years in
which I tried for sure especially about
this stuff time a career and a career is
a really obvious reason to be depressed
or unhappy or miserable in your life you
know you don't like the career you've
got or you you don't have a career or
whatever it is it's really obvious so
you have people try to talk to their
parents and they try to seek
professional help but I think like it's
one of these things I mean we've
complained about the whole university
structure as kind of offering false
promises to people and false hope I
think in the same way the professional
held paradigm it's like well once you
get past the veneer what is the help
there what is the help they can offer
and a lot of the time the answer may
just be nothing they've got no help to
offer you not not even the help your
older brother might offer you or if you
can find someone I'm older more
experienced mentor like person to play
that older brother role right all right
that's a wrap
sorry I mean you know we're not gonna
try to put a happy ending on a video
where the topic isn't just sad the topic
itself is sadness and then people trying
to seek professional help out of that
sadness it's it's a cold world you know
I did so many things that made me you
know an exception to the rules in an
obvious way like when I'm applying for a
master's degree you look at my resume
I'm not a typical applicant
for an MA but nobody gives a you
know like I'm living in Cambodia doing
humanitarian work I'm living in Laos of
doing these extraordinary things in my
life nobody wants to help me nobody
cares there is no professional help
nobody in my own family cares like it's
mind blowing I have a newborn baby the
cutest baby in the world the guy had an
extraordinarily cute baby nobody cares
nobody wants to help me my own family
doesn't give a
none of my colleagues from years of work
in different fields none of them give a
not one visitor not one card not one
email not one nobody cares and then when
we saw a professional help
you know me and my ex-wife before we got
divorced we went to see a therapist
nobody cares nobody gives a nobody
can offer any help nothing you know we
did the professional help thing too you
know I mean just basically because my my
ex-wife was cracking up you know you
know so what are you gonna say man the
the I mean in 2017 then in 2017
the model of medicalizing and medicating
all problems like oh whatever your
problem is you can take an
antidepressant Ignis all right I think
that's crumbling and falling apart right
you know some people are still using
SSRIs but that hit its peak probably in
1995 and it's been a long slow decline I
mean cigarette smoking hasn't gone out
of fashion entirely either but the the
religious belief in antidepressants is
on the way down on the way out you know
and now that that's dying that paradigm
what is the help that's looming for you
behind the beguiling neon sign
professional help get professional what
are you gonna say about it
yeah the other day when we were talking
about this I just said maybe I've been
brainwashed into thinking like you know
professional help it's you know it's a
legitimate thing if you're having
problems you know you've heard I have
heard it so many times from on TV in the
media from people in my family yeah it's
easy to say that there are authority
figures you should trust them and the
flip side of that is a lot of people get
disillusioned with the authority figures
and then feel the authority figures or
in some kind
conspiracy against them you know so
hennya pena the vegan hanger mania
hennya
she just had a situation where she goes
to one doctor and gets a prescription
goes to another doctor and the two
prescriptions of a conflict she's on
antidepressants the conflict with her
stomach meds and it could have killed
her you know what I mean
one of my catchphrases is that you know
part of maturing as an adult is that you
realize behind all authority is mere
authorship you know you don't regard
doctors and the medical establishment as
being anything other than regular people
who've read a couple of books or in some
cases you have written a couple of books
you know they're just like you and me
they're making these recommendations in
a totally human flawed imperfect way you
know you're not looking to them for
something they can't offer you offer
you're not looking for something it's
not there and therefore you're not
disillusioned with it but yeah that's
really that's really tough to swallow
you know I knew a guy he was a new
psychologist so you did the full you
know many many years in university but
leave them sorry it's easy to mix them
up psychologist versus psychotherapist
well he was a full psychologist per se
in Canada and I said to him because he
was really complaining about his clients
and the whole practice he said he was in
downtown Toronto and most of his clients
were millionaires is just as it happened
you know and he was so pissed off he
said all I'm dealing with or you know
stay at home like unemployed wives of
millionaires who do shopping therapy you
know trying to feel better about
themselves in their life it's a long
series of indulgences and like Louis
Vuitton shopping bags so that that was
like I'm paraphrasing but I was almost
exactly what he said to me about about
his clients and my reply to that I said
to him don't you think it takes a
certain level of kind of maturity and
even really like philosophical
engagement or philosophical yearning for
someone to come to you as a psychologist
and say you know I want to change the
way I'm living you know I want to change
the way I think and the way I feel I
want to be a better person like I'm not
happy and I want
want to be someone different you know I
want I want to change something about
you know how I perceived the world now I
live so don't you think that that look
even in these cases even if you hate
your clients don't you think that that
reflects a fundamental kind of maturity
and philosophical question it you know
and you notice I was over this the day I
died
his reply was no all they think is I'm
broken fix me that's pretty dark yes
okay so we did end the video on a
positive note we enter the
[Music]
evolution